dishonest scales are an abomination to
the Lord but a just weight is his
delight when pride comes then comes
shame but with the humble is wisdom the
integrity of the uprights will guide
them but the perversity of the
unfaithful will destroy them riches do
not profit in the day of wrath but
righteousness delivers from death the
righteousness of the blameless will
direct his way aright but the wicked
will fall by his own wickedness the
righteousness of the upright will
deliver them but the unfaithful will be
caught by their lust when a wicked man
dies his expectation will perish and the
hope of the unjust perishes the
righteous is delivered from trouble and
it comes to the wicked instead the
hypocrite with his mouth destroys his
neighbor but through knowledge the
righteous will be delivered when it goes
well with the righteous the city
rejoices and when the wicked perish
there is jubilation by the blessing of
the upright the city is exalted but it
is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked
he who is devoid of wisdom despises his
neighbor but a man of understanding
holds his peace a tail Bearer reveals
secrets but he who is of a faithful
spirit conceals Aneta
where there is no counsel the people
fall but in the multitude of counselors
there is safety he who is surety for a
stranger will suffer but one who hates
being surety is secure a gracious woman
retains honor but ruthless men retain
riches the merciful man does good for
his own soul but he who is cruel
troubles his own flesh the wicked man
does deceptive work but he who sews
righteousness will have a sure reward as
righteousness leads to life so he who
pursues evil pursues it to his own death
those who are of a perverse heart are an
abomination to the Lord but the
blameless in their ways are his delight
though they joined forces the wicked
will not go unpunished but the posterity
of the righteous will be delivered as a
ring of gold in a swine's snout so is a
lovely woman who lacks discretion the
desire of the righteous is only good but
the expectation of the wicked is wrath
there is one who scatters yet increases
more and there is one who withholds more
than is right but it leads to poverty
the generous soul will be made rich and
he who waters will also be watered
himself the people will curse him who
withholds grain but blessing will be on
the head of him who sells it
he who earnestly seek stood finds favor
but trouble will come to him who seeks
evil he who trusts in his riches will
fall that the righteous will flourish
like foliage he who troubles his own
house will inherit the wind and the fool
will be servant to the wise of Hearts
the fruit of the righteous is a tree of
life and he who wins Souls is wise if
the righteous will be recompense on the
earth how much more the ungodly and the
sinner